The Oklahoma Ethics Commission is an agency of the state of Oklahoma that issues rules on the ethical conduct for state elected officials and employees. It also investigates and prosecutes violations of its rules. The Ethics Commission was created by a two-to-one vote of the people of the state per an initiative effort adding Article XXIX to the Oklahoma Constitution . The statewide vote on the amendment (State Question No. 627) was held September 18, 1990. Commissioner s were sworn in and began meeting in July 1991. The commission is composed of five members, with one each appointed by the Governor of Oklahoma, President pro tempore of the Oklahoma Senate, Speaker of the Oklahoma House of Representati ves, the Chief Justice of the Oklahoma Supreme Court and the Attorney General of Oklahoma. All members serve five year terms. The commission was created in 1990 during the term of Governor Henry Bellmon. The commission is composed of five appointed members. One each is appointed by the Governor, President Pro Tempore of the Senate, Speaker of the House, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and Attorney General. No more than three can be of the same political party. No more than one congressiona l district may be represented at a time. All members serve five year terms. As of 2019, the current Commissioner s are: The Commission serves as the official repository of the financial disclosure statements, campaign contribution s and expenditure reports and lobbyist registration s and reports and has the power to issue advisory opinions when requested. The primary duty of the commission is to issue rules on ethical behavior. Such rules are presented to the Governor of Oklahoma and both houses of the Oklahoma Legislature for review. If not disapproved by joint resolution, subject to veto by the Governor, the rules become effective. In the event the Governor vetoes a joint resolution disapproving the rules, the procedure is the same as for veto of any other bill or joint resolution. Once in effect, the rules may be repealed or modified by the commission, subject to the same legislative and gubernatoria l action as for newly promulgated rules. Alternativel y, the rules may also be repealed or modified by the Legislature under the same procedures. XXX